Planning Your Website 
Designing a Website for your Project
Plan Your Website
❖  Create goals for your site 
❖  Organize the site structure 
❖  Create your design 
❖  Design the navigation scheme 
❖  Plan and gather your assets
Plan Everything BEFORE start..
Create goals for your site 
• Decide what your site goals are the first step you take when creating a Web site. 
• Ask yourself, or your group members, about what you hope to accomplish. 
• Write down your goals so that you remember them as you go through the design 
process. 
• Goals help to focus and target your Web site needs. 
• The Web site you develop should have a different look and navigation than a Web 
site that you sells products. 
• The complexity of your goals will affect the navigation.
Organize the site structure 
•    Organise your site carefully from the start
•   Begins by creating documents in a folder hierarchy
• Create a folder on your local hard disk that contains all the files for your site 
(referred to as the local site), and to create and edit documents within that folder. 
• Better than creating and editing files on the live public Web site itself, because it 
allows you to test changes in the local site before making them viewable to others. 
•   Break down your site into categories and put related pages in the same folder.
•   Decide where to put items such as images and sound files (if any). 
Creating your design 
• Save a lot of time later if you plan your design and layout before you start building. 
• You can simply create mock-up drawings on paper of how you want the site layout to 
look and then follow it.
• Maintain consistency in your page layout and design, which helps to ensure a good 
user experience. 
• If all the pages have a different look, or the navigation is in a different place on each 
page, it might frustrate or confuse the user. 
• Make sure your site provides a consistent look for your user.
Design the navigation scheme 
• Think about the experience you want your visitors to have for navigation. Think 
about how a visitor will be able to move from one area to another. Navigation 
should be consistent throughout your site. 
• Visitors should know where they are in the site and how to return to the top-level 
page.
• Search features and indexes make it easier for visitors to find information.
Planning and gathering your assets 
• Once you know about your design and layout, you can create and gather the 
assets that you will need. Assets can be items such as text, images or media. 
• Make sure you have gathered all of these items and ready to go before you 
start developing your site.
(If you are using images and graphics from a clip-art or someone else is creating 
them, make sure you collect them and put them in a folder on your site. If you 
are creating the assets by yourself, make sure you have created them all before 
you start development, including any images you need. Then organize your 
assets so you can access them easily while creating your site.)
Common Structure
Following structural criteria should go with the main tab area. Refer to 
the websites, that your seniors have created. (http://cdap.sliit.lk/)
 Home
 Domain
 Milestones
 Documents
 Slides of past presentations
 About us
 Contact us
Home
This gives a general introduction about the project, in abstract with 
concise and clear form. It should be very attractive. Therefore, the 
designer is free to use suitable graphics related to your project. 
Layout and Design:
▪ A Good Home page doesn't overuse images & graphics and have a consistent layout and 
organization. 
▪ The more general page, the more important, it is to have navigational aids and tables of 
contents (if possible-optional).
▪ Do not go with slow-loading graphics
▪ Optimize the graphics you use, by making them smaller and use few colors.
Domain
This section has domain details about your project. Describe the 
information you have gathered by the literature survey.
 Literature survey
 Research gap
 Research Problem
 Research objectives
 Methodology 
 Technologies Used
Milestones
Describe all assessments in the project. When describe items in the list, 
include details of the assessment, date and marks allocated for each item 
as well. When design, use a drop-down menu for user to choose.
List
 Project Proposal
 Progress Presentation-1
 Progress Presentation-2
 Final Assessment
 Viva etc.
Documents
This section should list all documents you have already produced and 
those pending (provide only links) for users to view. 
 Project Charter (one doc)
 Proposal Document (one doc)
 Check List documents
 Final Document  - (4 docs with the main) etc.
Presentations (Slides)
This section provides the slides used in past presentations. Keep 
provisions for future presentations.
 Proposal presentation
 Progress presentation-1
 Progress Presentation-2
 Final presentation etc.
About us
▪ Group members
▪ Identification-photograph (if any)
▪ Contact details (e-mail)
▪ Any relevant information (achievements etc.)
Contact us
▪ General contacts phone numbers, e-mails
▪ General e-mail template
Upload your files to the course web
Disk space:  Maximum 20 MB
Technology allowed: WordPress, HTML, CSS
